Adding New Syndicate Business Missions (#10393)
endless-sky/endless-sky: data/human/human missions.txt

Author: When I was resolving the conflicts initially, it defaulted to the middle. If there's no strong preference and it doesn't cause any issues, I'll likely leave it there for now unless it becomes a problem later.

Reviewer: Since it doesn't break up another mission chain, it's probably fine as-is.

				accept
	on accept
		event "start of independent violence"
	on enter "Moktar"
		"reputation: Independent (Killable)" = -1000
		conversation
			`When you enter <waypoints>, your sensors detect a pirate Vanguard, and a derelict shuttle aimlessly drifting near the coordinates in the original message. Your ship is immediately hailed, and the pirate opens communication.`
			`	"You were unwise to get involved in our business. Hand over that pompous salesman Howard, and I'll let you live."`
			choice
				`	"Uhhh... hand over who?"`
				`	"I don't negotiate with pirates!"`
					goto negotiate
				`	"You can take him, but I don't know where he is."`
			`	"Bah, you spineless buffoon! Your lies won't save you or that useless salesman. I'll find him in your ship's wreckage!"`
				goto power
			label negotiate
			`	"Aye, then I won't negotiate with you! Prepare to meet your end!"`
			label power
			`	The Vanguard's engines roar to life as you see over half a dozen fixed guns take aim at your ship, ready to strike.`
	npc
		government "Independent (Killable)"
		personality heroic staying vindictive
			confusion 20
		system "Moktar"
		ship "Vanguard" "Golden Jewel"

> 	npc save assist

Reviewer 2: You should get some message if the ship is destroyed.

Reviewer 2: Oh, I meant for Howard's shuttle, not the pirate ship.

Author: Treating this as resolved -- please reopen if not the case.

				`	"Nope, I'll stick with the 90k."`
					goto payup
			label invest
			`	"Excellent. I'll need to get approval for the bond sale and set up the paperwork, so the deal won't be ready today, but feel free to come back to my office here at the spaceport anytime afterwards to execute the purchase. Remember, you'll need to have at least one million credits for the bond purchase and to take care of a few other administrative tasks."`
				decline
			label payup
			`	"Erhm, yes, of course. Here you are, my savings of ninety-one thousand, nine hundred and fifty one credits. I remain in your debt, and if you still want to invest in us, I will be here."`
			action
				payment 91951
				set "mean to Howard"

event "start of independent violence"
	government "Independent (Killable)"
		"attitude toward"
			"Independent" -.2
	government "Independent"
		"attitude toward"
			"Independent (Killable)" -.2

event "end of independent violence"
	government "Independent (Killable)"
		"attitude toward"
			"Independent" 0
	government "Independent"
		"attitude toward"
			"Independent (Killable)" 0

mission "Syndicate Business 2"
	name "Purchase Bond on <planet>"

> 	description "Bring Howard to <destination> in order to finalize the paperwork you'll need to finalize your bond agreement with Megaparsec Incorporated."

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
	description "Bring Howard to <destination> in order to finish the paperwork you'll need to finalize your bond agreement with Megaparsec Incorporated."
```

			dialog "The crew of the Golden Jewel are no more. You think you can make out the pirate captain drifting in space nearby."
	npc save assist
		government "Independent"
		personality derelict target quiet escort
		system "Moktar"
		ship "Escape Pod" "Escape Pod 001"
		on kill
			dialog "You watch as the escape pod you're racing to save explodes into a cloud of debris, all hope snuffed out in an instant."
		conversation
			`You board the escape pod to see its desperate and nearly incoherent occupant: "Oh thank the stars, thank you! Captain, you've got to save me - please! I'm Howard. I promise you a reward if you can fix up this tin can so I can get to <destination>! I'm with Megaparsec, I can make it worth your while!"`
			choice
				`	"Sounds good."`
					decline
				`	"What's the deal with you and that pirate?"`
			`	Howard takes a breath and seems to calm himself. "That pirate was a potential investor in the firm I work for. We had a disagreement over the terms and it obviously got quite out of hand. I'll need to find a new business partner now..." He trails off. Time to get back to <planet>.`
	on complete
		"reputation: Independent (Killable)" = 10

> 		event "end of independent violence"

Reviewer: ```suggestion
		event "end of independent violence"
		log "Went to rescue somebody who said he was on a pirate ship. This turned out to be true, and I was offered and investment opportunity."
		log "People" "Howard" "Howard is a salesman from Megaparsec in charge of setting up investments. First met him on a pirate ship whose owner he was trying to convince to invest."
```

Reviewer 3: Logs should avoid using first person pronouns.

Reviewer: How about it now?

		conversation
			`You board the escape pod to see its desperate and nearly incoherent occupant: "Oh thank the stars, thank you! Captain, you've got to save me - please! I'm Howard. I promise you a reward if you can fix up this tin can so I can get to <destination>! I'm with Megaparsec, I can make it worth your while!"`
			choice
				`	"Sounds good."`
					decline
				`	"What's the deal with you and that pirate?"`
			`	Howard takes a breath and seems to calm himself. "That pirate was a potential investor in the firm I work for. We had a disagreement over the terms and it obviously got quite out of hand. I'll need to find a new business partner now..." He trails off. Time to get back to <planet>.`
	on complete
		"reputation: Independent (Killable)" = 10
		event "end of independent violence"
		conversation
			`When you land on <planet>, Howard is waiting for you at the spaceport, looking much more collected than he was on the escape pod. "Thank you, truly. I'm Howard Vendeur, Investor Relations Associate with Megaparsec Incorporated. Anyway, I've managed to scrounge up my savings. It's not much to someone like you, I'm afraid. Just over ninety thousand credits.`

> 			`	"However, I see you're clearly a captain of means. I'd have to pull a few strings, but I could get you into a private placement of a Megaparsec Inc perpetual bond. To purchase a perpetual bond of Megaparsec Inc I will need one million credits and for you to sign a few documents. This round is quite generous, with promised returns of 20% per annum expected, of course, to continue into perpetuity, paid out to you as a daily dividend of 500 credits."`

Reviewer 4: While this is better grammar, I'm not sure it adds to readability. It's sort of like how "Lo! and behold it." would be a valid sentence, but could confuse people. This could go either way, though.

	on enter "Moktar"
		"reputation: Independent (Killable)" = -1000
		conversation
			`When you enter <waypoints>, your sensors detect a pirate Vanguard and a derelict escape pod aimlessly drifting near the coordinates in the original message. Your ship is immediately hailed, and the pirate opens communication.`
			`	"You were unwise to get involved in our business. Hand over that pompous salesman Howard, and I'll let you live."`
			choice
				`	"Uhhh... hand over who?"`
				`	"I don't negotiate with pirates!"`
					goto negotiate
				`	"You can take him, but I don't know where he is."`
			`	"Bah, you spineless buffoon! Your lies won't save you or that useless salesman. I'll find him in your ship's wreckage!"`
				goto power
			label negotiate
			`	"Aye, then I won't negotiate with you! Prepare to meet your end!"`
			label power
			`	The Vanguard's engines roar to life as you see over half a dozen fixed guns take aim at your ship, ready to strike.`
	npc
		government "Independent (Killable)"
		personality heroic staying vindictive
			confusion 20
		system "Moktar"
		ship "Vanguard" "Golden Jewel"
		on kill
			set "syndicate bus golden jewel dead"

> 			conversation
> 				`The crew of the Golden Jewel are no more. You think you can make out the pirate captain drifting in space nearby.`
> 				choice
> 					`	Best not to dwell on these things.`

Reviewer 5: We try to avoid single-option choices with no follow-up text, since that lends itself to awkward gameplay. The [done] button already acts as an opportunity for the player to read through the conversation one last time, so adding a choice right before it turns what should be just a single input to close the conversation into two.

Also, for text this short, put it in a dialog rather than a full conversation.
```suggestion
			dialog "The crew of the Golden Jewel are no more. You think you can make out the pirate captain drifting in space nearby."
```

Reviewer 5: Sure.

	npc save assist
		government "Independent"
		personality derelict target quiet escort
		system "Moktar"
		ship "Escape Pod" "Escape Pod 001"
		on kill

> 			conversation
> 				`You watch as the escape pod you're racing to save explodes into a cloud of debris, all hope snuffed out in an instant.`
> 				choice
> 					`	Better not to linger on what could have been.`

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
			dialog "You watch as the escape pod you're racing to save explodes into a cloud of debris, all hope snuffed out in an instant."
```

			choice
				`	"Sure, I'll invest. What do I need to do?"`
					goto invest
				`	"Megaparsec? I thought you were part of the Syndicate."`
					goto mega
				`	"Private placement? Does that mean I own part of the Syndicate?"`
					goto placement
				`	"No thanks. I'll take the money, please."`
					goto payup
			label mega
			`	"Megaparsec Incorporated is a proud affiliate of Syndicated Systems that accepts some private outside investment. We specialize in the design and manufacture of innovative, fast, and lightweight high-performance commercial and military space vehicles. Though a relatively young shipyard, our ships can still outmaneuver and outgun almost anything their size. Would you like to invest?"`
			choice
				`	"Sure, I'll invest. What do I need to do?"`
					goto invest
				`	"Nope, I'll stick with the 90k."`
					goto payup
			label placement

> 			`	"Not quite. You will be a lender to an affiliate of Syndicated Systems - Megaparsec Incorporated. As a privately held business, there are few opportunities to invest, and even fewer people who are permitted to. It's quite an exclusive investment, with quite high returns, I might add. Would you like to invest with us?"`

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
			`	"Not quite. You will be a lender to an affiliate of Syndicated Systems - Megaparsec Incorporated. As a privately held business, there are few opportunities to invest, and even fewer people who are permitted to. It's quite an exclusive investment, with high returns, I might add. Would you like to invest with us?"`
```

			`Ale, River, and Bunker look glad to be back on <planet>. "Being there in person was bad enough," Ale grumbles as she looks through a stack of folders on her datapad. "Now we have to watch it over and over again to edit it into something presentable."`
			`	As they are leaving, Ale hands you a stack of credit chips totaling <payment>. "There's a bonus in there for you. We really couldn't have done it without you," she tells you with a bittersweet smile. "Of course, you'll be one of the first to know when it's done."`
			`	She starts off to join River and Bunker out in the spaceport before turning around one last time in the doorway. "We might be in need of you for some future projects too, Captain <last>. But goodbye for now. Stay safe on the star lanes!"`

mission "Syndicate Business 1"

> 	name "Rescue Kidnapped Man in <waypoints>"

Reviewer 4: The capitalization change here is definitely a good idea. I'm not sure about the addition of `a`, though, since this should read more like a headline than a sentence.

			choice
				`	"Sure, I'll invest. What do I need to do?"`
				`	"Nope, I'll stick with the 90k."`
					goto payup
			label invest
			`	"Excellent. I'll need to get approval for the bond sale and set up the paperwork, so the deal won't be ready today, but feel free to come back to my office here at the spaceport anytime afterwards to execute the purchase. Remember, you'll need to have at least one million credits for the bond purchase and to take care of a few other administrative tasks."`
				decline
			label payup
			`	"Erhm, yes, of course. Here you are, my savings of ninety-one thousand, nine hundred and fifty one credits. I remain in your debt, and if you still want to invest in us, I will be here."`
			action
				payment 91951
				set "mean to Howard"

event "start of independent violence"
	government "Independent (Killable)"
		"attitude toward"
			"Independent" -.2
	government "Independent"
		"attitude toward"
			"Independent (Killable)" -.2

event "end of independent violence"
	government "Independent (Killable)"
		"attitude toward"
			"Independent" 0
	government "Independent"
		"attitude toward"
			"Independent (Killable)" 0

> ship "Escape Pod"

Reviewer 4: I'd be happy to spec the pod out, too, since I've grown a little attached to it now :)

	minor
	to offer
		random < 40
		credits > 5000000
		"combat rating" > 350
	source
		government "Syndicate"
		attributes "core"
	waypoint "Moktar"
	destination "Sunracer"
	on offer
		conversation
			`You are walking near the spaceport and suddenly a computer terminal starts blinking and beeping when you pass it.`
			choice
				`	(Check it out.)`
				`	(Ignore it.)`
					decline
			`	When you approach, you are greeted by plain text on the terminal's screen:`
			`	"SOS: Kidnapped by pirates, can't respond. <waypoints> standard coordinates: -1.18143560, -0.01575673, 0.00755328. Life in danger, need urgent rescue. Cannot communicate, all signals monitored. Please help!"`
			`	You note that the message doesn't have any information about the sender, but there wouldn't be if what the message contains is true. There are no shortage of pirates in <waypoints>.`
			choice
				`	"To <waypoints>!"`
				`	(Ignore it and walk away.)`
					decline
			`	You return to your ship and prepare to leave.`
				accept

	on enter "Moktar"
		"reputation: Independent (Killable)" = -1000
		conversation

> 			`When you enter <waypoints>, your sensors detect a pirate Vanguard, but no sign of any escape pod. Your ship is immediately hailed, and the pirate opens communication.`

Reviewer 4: Probably.

			`	The voice of the apparent captain of the <npc> sends you a hail. "You were unwise to get involved in our business. Hand over that pompous salesman Howard, and I'll let you live."`
			choice
				`	"Uhhh... hand over who?"`
				`	"I don't negotiate with pirates!"`
					goto negotiate
				`	"You can take him, but I don't know where he is."`
			label who
			`	"Bah, you spineless buffoon! Your lies won't save you or that useless salesman. I'll find him in your ship's wreckage!"`
				goto power
			label negotiate
			`	"Aye, then I won't negotiate with you! Prepare to meet your end!"`
			label power
			`	The Vanguard's engines roar to life as you see over half a dozen fixed guns take aim at your ship, ready to strike.`
	npc kill
		government "Independent (Killable)"
		personality heroic staying vindictive
			confusion 20
		system "Moktar"
		ship "Vanguard" "Golden Jewel"
		conversation

> 			`The <npc> has been destroyed. You receive a hail from a small escape pod drifting nearby. "Thank you, Captain, you've saved my life. I'm Howard. I can promise you a reward if you pick me up from this tin can and drop me off at <destination>."`

Reviewer 4: I like the idea behind this, but I'd like it even better if there was a physical escape pod that you had to board and rescue Howard from (I could probably throw together a Blender model if you're interested). It would probably involve having the escape pod already free from the ship when you entered the system, so the conversation would need to be reworked a bit, but it could add some more challenge to the mission (defenseless target to protect, etc.) and also explain why you have to kill off the pirate. You could even make it so your end goal was to board the escape pod, and the pirate was just secondary.

Reviewer 4: I was more thinking make a single escape pod for this mission that's actually a derelict ship, and not worry about the fact that wider escape pod mechanics don't exist yet.

			choice
				`	"Sounds good."`
					decline
				`	"What's the deal with you and that pirate?"`

> 			`	"That pirate was a potential investor in the firm I work for. We had a disagreement over the terms and it obviously got quite out of hand. I'll need to find a new business partner now..." He trails off. Time to go to <planet>.`

Reviewer 4: "Time to go to" sounds like Howard is planning a business trip somewhere from the back of my ship. Maybe:
```suggestion
			`	"That pirate was a potential investor in the firm I work for. We had a disagreement over the terms and it obviously got quite out of hand. I'll need to find a new business partner now..." He trails off. Time to get back to <planet>.`
```

	on complete
		"reputation: Independent (Killable)" = 10
		conversation
			`When you land on <planet>, Howard is waiting for you at the spaceport. "Thank you, truly. I'm Howard Vendeur, Investor Relations Associate with Megaparsec Incorporated. Anyway, I've managed to scrounge up my savings. It's not much to someone like you, I'm afraid. Just over ninety thousand credits.`

> 			`	"However, I see you're clearly a captain of means. I'd have to pull a few strings, but I could get you into a private placement of a Megaparsec Inc perpetual bond. To purchase 1 perpetual bond of Megaparsec Inc I will need 1 million credits and for you to sign a few documents. This round is quite generous, with promised returns of 20% per annum expected, of course, to continue into perpetuity, paid out to you as a daily dividend of 500 credits."`

Reviewer 4: The numeral 1 works for money, but should probably be either "a" or "one" for the bond. I'd probably use "one" for the million, as well, but I think it's okay as-is too.

```suggestion
			`	"However, I see you're clearly a captain of means. I'd have to pull a few strings, but I could get you into a private placement of a Megaparsec Inc perpetual bond. To purchase a perpetual bond of Megaparsec Inc I will need 1 million credits and for you to sign a few documents. This round is quite generous, with promised returns of 20% per annum expected, of course, to continue into perpetuity, paid out to you as a daily dividend of 500 credits."`
```

500 credits seems a bit low, but I think it works (I would expect most players to go for the one-time payment, with the risks involved).

Reviewer 4: I think those numbers make sense. The missions would still be useful for someone expecting to play for decades (but only if they knew they could trust Howard, and Megaparsec doesn't end up going under). I think most people would bow out before the end, but having those staggered choices would be neat to let people choose when exactly they want to call it quits.

					goto mega
				`	"Private placement? Does that mean I own part of the Syndicate?"`
					goto placement
				`	"No thanks. I'll take the money, please."`
					goto payup
			label mega
			`	"Megaparsec Incorporated is a proud affiliate of Syndicated Systems that accepts some private outside investment. We specialize in the design and manufacture of innovative, fast, and lightweight high-performance commercial and military space vehicles. Though a relatively young shipyard, our ships can still outmaneuver and outgun almost anything their size. Would you like to invest?"`
			choice
				`	"Sure, I'll invest. What do I need to do?"`
					goto invest
				`	"Nope, I'll stick with the 90k."`
					goto payup
			label placement
			`	"Not quite. You will be a lender to an affiliate of Syndicated Systems - Megaparsec Incorporated. As a privately held business, there are few opportunities to invest, and even fewer people who are permitted to. It's quite an exclusive investment, with quite high returns, I might add. Would you like to invest with us?"`
			choice
				`	"Sure, I'll invest. What do I need to do?"`
				`	"Nope, I'll stick with the 90k."`
					goto payup
			label invest

> 			`	"Excellent. To purchase 1 bond in Megaparsec Incorporated I will need 1 million credits. Then you sign a few documents, send over the payment, and take care of a few other administrative tasks. I'll need to get approval for the bond sale and set up the paperwork, so it won't be ready today, but feel free to come back to my office here at the spaceport anytime to execute the purchase. Remember, you'll need to have at least 1 million credits for the bond purchase."`

Reviewer 4: This is pretty much exactly the same wording as above. I'd tweak it a bit.

				decline
			label payup
			`	"Erhm, yes, of course. Here you are, my savings of ninety-one thousand, nine hundred and fifty one credits. I remain in your debt, and if you still want to invest in us, I will be here."`
			action
				payment 91951
				set "mean to Howard"

mission "Syndicate Business 2"
	name "Purchase Bond on <planet>"

> 	description "Howard from Megaparsec Incorporated is letting you buy a bond in the company for 1 million credits."

Reviewer 4: This doesn't tell me what I'm doing in this mission. Maybe:
```suggestion
	description "Bring Howard to <destination> in order to finalize the paperwork you'll need to finalize your bond agreement with Megaparsec Incorporated."
```

	passengers 1
	source "Sunracer"
	destination "Hephaestus"
	to offer
		has "Syndicate Business 1: done"
		credits > 1000000
	on offer
		conversation
			`You visit the office address Howard gave you at the spaceport, where he immediately spots and heads toward you. Grateful for saving his life, he thanks you profusely and excitedly tells you what an exclusive offer you've received to be able to purchase a bond of Megaparsec Incorporated.`

> 			`	"To reiterate, to purchase 1 perpetual bond of Megaparsec Incorporated I will need 1 million credits and for you to sign a few documents. Our promised returns are 20% per annum which we expect to continue into perpetuity, paid out to you as a daily dividend of 500 credits. Do you accept these terms?"`

Reviewer 4: Same thing with the repetition and numeral 1.
```suggestion
			`	"To reiterate, in order to purchase a perpetual Megaparsec Incorporated bond, you will need to provide us with an up-front payment of one million credits, and sign some legal documents. Our promised returns are 20% per annum which we expect to continue into perpetuity, paid out to you as a daily dividend of 500 credits. Do you accept these terms?"`
```

	on accept
		payment -1000000
	on complete
		conversation
			`You land on <destination> and follow Howard's instructions to the biometric scan center. You hand in the first set of paperwork you filled out, and after scanning your fingerprint, retinas, and getting a blood sample, Howard comes over and says, "Excellent, only one last set of paperwork left to sign." He places one more set of documents on the table and taps the stack of papers.`
			`	"New regulations dictate that we inform you that the proceeds of this bond may be used in high risk activities such as strip mining, clearing endangered habitats, or doing business on worlds with alleged human rights violations. All boilerplate language, of course, but you have to disclose every possibility these days." He shrugs.`
			`	He then taps the documents the documents again and says, "This is your final decision and set of paperwork. I would also like to disclose that your initial deposit covering the full 1 million credits is non-refundable. So, as a last formality, would you like to invest in the full investment suite?"`
			choice
				`	"Of course."`
					goto high
				`	"I'm backing out, I can't ethically invest in this."`

> 					decline

Reviewer 4: At this point, Howard's already taken your money, so I'd expect to have at least another little bit of dialogue where he either tells you that he can't give you a refund, or does indeed give you a refund.

			`Ale, River, and Bunker look glad to be back on <planet>. "Being there in person was bad enough," Ale grumbles as she looks through a stack of folders on her datapad. "Now we have to watch it over and over again to edit it into something presentable."`
			`	As they are leaving, Ale hands you a stack of credit chips totaling <payment>. "There's a bonus in there for you. We really couldn't have done it without you," she tells you with a bittersweet smile. "Of course, you'll be one of the first to know when it's done."`
			`	She starts off to join River and Bunker out in the spaceport before turning around one last time in the doorway. "We might be in need of you for some future projects too, Captain <last>. But goodbye for now. Stay safe on the star lanes!"`

mission "Syndicate Business 1"

> 	name "Rescue Kidnapped Man in <waypoints>"

Author: Possibly, now that you mention it. I'll check on this once I'm at a computer

> 	name "Rescue Kidnapped Man in <waypoints>"

Author: Ends up looking a reasonable length to me. If you agree I'll resolve the comment, otherwise I can change it to something like "Save Man in Moktar".

![image](https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/61def9dc-ec38-44de-be03-390c1f083b97)

			choice
				`	"Sure, I'll invest. What do I need to do?"`
					goto invest
				`	"Nope, I'll stick with the 90k."`
					goto payup
			label invest
			`	"Excellent. To purchase 1 bond in Maralex Controls I will need 1 million credits. Then you sign a few documents, send over the payment, and take care of a few other administrative tasks. I'll need to get approval for the stock sale and set up the paperwork, so it won't be ready today, but feel free to come back to my office here at the spaceport anytime to execute the purchase. Remember, you'll need to have at least 1 million credits for the stock purchase."`
				decline
			label payup
			`	"Erhm, yes, of course. Here you are, my savings of ninety-one thousand, nine hundred and fifty one credits. I remain in your debt, and if you still want to invest in us, I will be here."`
			action
				payment 91951
			action
				"mean to Howard" = 1

mission "Syndicate Business 2"
	name "Purchase Stock on <planet>"

> 	description "Howard from Maralex Controls is letting you buy a bond in the company for 1 million credits"

Author: Howard is just an employee of the company rather than owning the company. Would using "the company" make more sense then, or is "his company" still the better text for that?

	passengers 1
	source "Sunracer"
	destination "Hephaestus"
	to offer
		has "Syndicate Business 1: done"
		credits > 1000000
	on offer
		conversation

> 			`Howard once again thanks you profusely for saving his life and excitedly tells you what an exclusive offer you've received to be able to purchase a bond of Maralex Controls.`

Author: Just added a line changing it to 

**You visit the office address Howard gave you at the spaceport where Howard immediately sees you and** once again thanks you profusely for saving his life and excitedly tells you what an exclusive offer you've received to be able to purchase a bond of Maralex Controls.

	to offer
		random < 40
		credits > 5000000
		"combat rating" > 50
	source
		government "Syndicate"
		attributes "core"
	waypoint "Moktar"
	destination "Sunracer"
	on offer
		conversation
			`As you are walking through the spaceport, you are startled by a sudden loud beeping from a nearby computer terminal. The computer is unattended and the screen is blinking on and off.`
			choice
				`	(Check it out.)`
				`	(Ignore it.)`
					decline
			`	When you approach, you are greeted by plain text on the terminal's screen:`
			`	"SOS: Kidnapped by pirates, can't respond. <waypoints> standard coordinates: RAD AU 30.12 LAT 0.2 LON 303.9. Life in danger, need urgent rescue. Cannot communicate, all signals monitored. Please help!"`
			`	You note that the message appears to be coming from an emergency transmitter commonly found on many small shuttles and escape pods. There is no shortage of pirates in <waypoints>.`
			choice
				`	(To <waypoints>!)`
				`	(Ignore it and walk away.)`
					decline
			`	You return to your ship and prepare to leave.`
				accept
	on accept
		event "start of independent violence"
	on enter "Moktar"
		"reputation: Independent (Killable)" = -1000
		conversation

> 			`When you enter <waypoints>, your sensors detect a pirate Vanguard and a derelict emergency shuttle aimlessly drifting near the coordinates in the original message. Almost immediately, you receive a message from the pirate ship..`

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
			`When you enter <waypoints>, your sensors detect a pirate Vanguard and a derelict Emergency Shuttle aimlessly drifting near the coordinates in the original message. Almost immediately, you receive a message from the pirate ship..`
```

					goto mega
				`	"Private placement? Does that mean I own part of the Syndicate?"`
					goto placement
				`	"No thanks. I'll take the money, please."`
					goto payup
			label mega
			`	"Megaparsec Incorporated is a proud affiliate of Syndicated Systems that accepts some private outside investment. We specialize in the design and manufacture of innovative, fast, and lightweight high-performance commercial and military space vehicles. Though a relatively young shipyard, our ships can still outmaneuver and outgun almost anything their size. Would you like to invest?"`
			choice
				`	"Sure, I'll invest. What do I need to do?"`
					goto invest
				`	"Nope, I'll stick with the 90k."`
					goto payup
			label placement
			`	"Not quite. You will be a lender to an affiliate of Syndicated Systems - Megaparsec Incorporated. As a privately held business, there are few opportunities to invest, and even fewer people who are permitted to. It's quite an exclusive investment, with high returns, I might add. Would you like to invest with us?"`
			choice
				`	"Sure, I'll invest. What do I need to do?"`
				`	"Nope, I'll stick with the 90k."`
					goto payup
			label invest

> 			`	"Excellent. I'll need to get approval for the bond sale and set up the paperwork, so the deal won't be ready today, but feel free to come back to my kiosk here at the spaceport anytime afterwards to execute the purchase. Remember, you'll need to have at least one million credits for the bond purchase and to take care of a few other administrative tasks."`

Reviewer 6: It doesn't make sense to say the stuff won't be ready today when we can collect the next mission immediately, and I don't think it'd be very good to actually require a day, because that just means the player has to take off and land again.
```suggestion
			`	"Excellent. I'll need to get approval for the bond sale and set up the paperwork. Feel free to come by my kiosk in the spaceport here later today if you're ready to invest, or another time if you need more time. Remember, you'll need to have at least one million credits for the bond purchase, and I'll need you to transport me to Hephaestus to take care of a few other administrative tasks."`
```

Author: Excellent idea, thanks for the change!

ship "Emergency Shuttle"
	sprite "ship/escape pod"
	attributes
		category "Utility"
		"cost" 45000
		"shields" 300
		"hull" 600
		"required crew" 1
		"bunks" 10
		"mass" 65
		"drag" 1.7
		"heat dissipation" .7
		"fuel capacity" 100
		"cargo space" 20
		"outfit space" 39
		"weapon capacity" 0
		"engine capacity" 20
		weapon
			"blast radius" 9
			"shield damage" 90
			"hull damage" 45
			"hit force" 135
	outfits
		"KP-6 Photovoltaic Panel" 2
		"LP036a Battery Pack"
		"Outfits Expansion"
		
		"X1050 Ion Engines"

		"Hyperdrive"
		
	engine 0 26
		zoom 1.4
	leak "leak" 40 50
	explode "tiny explosion" 5
	explode "small explosion" 1
	description "This Emergency Shuttle is custom-built, designed to be attached to a larger ship and to serve as a lifeboat if the need arises. It is intentionally designed to maximize the number of people it can carry to safety, but has very little space for outfits."

mission "Syndicate Business 2"
	name "Purchase bond on <planet>"
	description "Bring Howard to <destination> in order to finish the paperwork you'll need to finalize your bond agreement with Megaparsec Incorporated."
	passengers 1
	source "Sunracer"
	destination "Hephaestus"

> 	to offer
> 		has "Syndicate Business 1: done"
> 		credits > 1000000

Reviewer 6: Based on the previous conversation, this also probably shouldn't offer if we just took his life savings earlier.
```suggestion
	blocked "Howard has offered you an investment opportunity, but mentioned that it'll cost you a million credits up front, and you'll need space on your ship to transport him elsewhere. Better come back when you have those."
	to offer
		has "Syndicate Business 1: done"
		not "syndicate business: mean to Howard"
	to accept
		credits > 1000000
```
Or, any other blocked message you want to include.

Reviewer: Well, it's not unlikely that the player won't notice "let him have his money" option, and if not, that locks them out of the whole rest of the mission chain.
Seeing as how other missions later on will have Howard be kinder or meaner based on what the player does, I think it'll overall be more fun to be able to be mean and face the consequences later.
Endless Sky is sadly lacking people who change their interactions based on what the player is done previously; let's not keep it that way.

Reviewer 6: You're right. I missed the last sentence in that branch.

Author: Github's being a bit wonky, but I just implemented this suggestion so marking as resolved. Thank you!

mission "Syndicate Business 1"
	name "Rescue kidnapped man in <waypoints>"
	description "You have received a mysterious distress call from an alleged abductee in the <waypoints> system. Head there to see if you can find the signal's source."
	minor
	to offer
		random < 40
		credits > 5000000
		"combat rating" > 50
	source
		government "Syndicate"
		attributes "core"
	waypoint "Moktar"
	destination "Sunracer"
	on offer
		conversation
			`As you are walking through the spaceport, you are startled by a sudden loud beeping from a nearby computer terminal. The computer is unattended and the screen is blinking on and off.`
			choice
				`	(Check it out.)`
				`	(Ignore it.)`
					decline
			`	When you approach, you are greeted by plain text on the terminal's screen:`
			`	"SOS: Kidnapped by pirates, can't respond. <waypoints> standard coordinates: RAD AU 30.12 LAT 0.2 LON 303.9. Life in danger, need urgent rescue. Cannot communicate, all signals monitored. Please help!"`

> 			`	You note that the message appears to be coming from an emergency transmitter commonly found on many small shuttles and escape pods. There is no shortage of pirates in <waypoints>.`

Author: Thanks for the feedback! Having a manual vs automated message is very much a gameplay-over-realism choice. Beyond being a bit more colorful than "SOS: < waypoints> : RAD AU 30.12 LAT 0.2 LON 303.9," the message establishes:

1. **Howard's panic/desperation**: Howard is panicking and not thinking rationally. The fact that he's sending a manual message instead of an automated one also reinforces that a bit, and making his situation maybe a tad more personal. 
2. **Pirates**: Very clearly setting the stage for what dangers to expect (expect violence rather than a more relaxed mechanical malfunction)

Both of which would be lost with the automated message. 

That being said, **mOctave** also thought the original version of this message was odd (though it's been reworked since), so it may make sense to change to the simplified one. 

I guess give a thumbs up if this comment addressed your concerns, or a side eye if it does not and I'll swap over to the automated message.

> 			`	You note that the message appears to be coming from an emergency transmitter commonly found on many small shuttles and escape pods. There is no shortage of pirates in <waypoints>.`

Author: Treating this as resolved -- please reopen if not the case.

			choice

> 				`	"To <waypoints>!"`

Author: Good idea
```suggestion
				`	(To <waypoints>!)`
```

					goto payup
			label invest
			`	"Excellent. I'll need to get approval for the bond sale and set up the paperwork, so the deal won't be ready today, but feel free to come back to my kiosk here at the spaceport anytime afterwards to execute the purchase. Remember, you'll need to have at least one million credits for the bond purchase and to take care of a few other administrative tasks."`
				decline
			label payup
			`	"Erhm, yes, of course. Here you are, my savings of ninety-one thousand, nine hundred and fifty one credits. I remain in your debt, and if you still want to invest in us, I will be here."`
			action
				payment 91951
				set "syndicate business: mean to Howard"

event "start of independent violence"
	government "Independent (Killable)"
		"attitude toward"
			"Independent" -.2
	government "Independent"
		"attitude toward"
			"Independent (Killable)" -.2

event "end of independent violence"
	government "Independent (Killable)"
		"attitude toward"
			"Independent" 0
	government "Independent"
		"attitude toward"
			"Independent (Killable)" 0

# Feel free to change this escape pod to a different ship once escape pod mechanics are implemented.

> ship "Escape Pod"

Author: ```suggestion
ship "Emergency Shuttle"
```

	sprite "ship/escape pod"
	attributes
		category "Utility"
		"cost" 45000
		"shields" 300
		"hull" 600
		"required crew" 1
		"bunks" 10
		"mass" 65
		"drag" 1.7
		"heat dissipation" .7
		"fuel capacity" 100
		"cargo space" 20
		"outfit space" 39
		"weapon capacity" 0
		"engine capacity" 20
		weapon
			"blast radius" 9
			"shield damage" 90
			"hull damage" 45
			"hit force" 135
	outfits
		"KP-6 Photovoltaic Panel" 2
		"LP036a Battery Pack"
		"Outfits Expansion"
		
		"X1050 Ion Engines"

		"Hyperdrive"
		
	engine 0 26
		zoom 1.4
	leak "leak" 40 50
	explode "tiny explosion" 5
	explode "small explosion" 1

> 	description "This escape pod is a custom-built Shuttle, designed to be attached to a larger ship and to serve as a lifeboat if the need arises. It is intentionally designed to maximize the number of people it can carry to safety, but has very little space for outfits. While escape pods usually do not come with a hyperdrive installed, this one has been modified in order to fit one in."

Reviewer 6: I'm not sure calling this an "escape pod" works very well.
This description begins by suggesting it is somewhat bespoke ("custom-built Shuttle") but goes on to refer to escape pods as though they are a common thing, even though the player will have never seen anything like an escape pod before, and if they do go looking for such a thing after this, they won't find it. ("While escape pods usually do not come with a hyperdrive installed, this one has been modified in order to fit one in.") The modifications referred to there do not appear to have been very significant, either. All it took was an outfits expansion, and whatever the 100 fuel capacity cost. It is otherwise somewhere around a drone or fighter in terms of size.
I think the last sentence ought to just be removed, and possibly rename the ship to something like "Emergency Shuttle".

Author: ```suggestion
	description "This Emergency Shuttle is custom-built, designed to be attached to a larger ship and to serve as a lifeboat if the need arises. It is intentionally designed to maximize the number of people it can carry to safety, but has very little space for outfits."
```

mission "Syndicate Business 2"
	name "Purchase bond on <planet>"
	description "Bring Howard to <destination> in order to finish the paperwork you'll need to finalize your bond agreement with Megaparsec Incorporated."
	passengers 1
	source "Sunracer"
	destination "Hephaestus"
	to offer
		has "Syndicate Business 1: done"

> 		credits > 1000000

Reviewer 6: This ought to be in a "to accept" condition and the mission should have a "blocked" message. The previous message could also mention the need to transport Howard somewhere, which should be repeated in the "blocked" message, else a person without the passenger space will just not get this mission for no apparent reason.

Author: This is a good callout -- though a bit new to me so I'll take a little time to playtest to make sure it works as expected.

Author: Done using your "blocked" suggestion -- thanks!

	on offer
		conversation
			`You visit the kiosk location Howard gave you at the spaceport, where he immediately spots and heads toward you. Grateful for saving his life, he thanks you profusely and excitedly tells you what an exclusive offer you've received to be able to purchase a bond of Megaparsec Incorporated.`
			`	"To reiterate, in order to purchase a perpetual Megaparsec Incorporated bond you will need to provide us with an up-front payment of one million credits, and sign some legal documents. Our promised returns are 20% per annum, which we expect to continue into perpetuity, paid out to you as a daily dividend of 500 credits. Do you accept these terms?"`
			choice
				`	"Sure, here's the one million credits."`

> 					goto doit

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
					goto accept
```
```suggestion
```

				`	"No, I won't become an investor."`
					decline

> 			label doit

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
			label agree
```
Or just drop the label and goto entirely, because they aren't necessary.
```suggestion
```

				accept
	on accept
		payment -1000000
	on complete
		conversation
			`You land on <destination> and follow Howard's instructions to the biometric scan center. You hand in the first set of paperwork you filled out, and after scanning your fingerprint, retinas, and getting a blood sample, Howard comes over and says, "Excellent, only one last set of paperwork left to sign." He places one more set of documents on the table and taps the stack of papers.`
			`	"New regulations dictate that we inform you that the proceeds of this bond may be used in high risk activities such as strip mining, clearing endangered habitats, or doing business on worlds with alleged human rights violations. All boilerplate language, of course, but you have to disclose every possibility these days." He shrugs.`

> 			`	He then taps the documents the documents again and says, "This is your final decision and set of paperwork. I would also like to disclose that your initial deposit covering the full one million credits is non-refundable. So, as a last formality, would you like to invest in the full investment suite?"`

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
			`	He then taps the documents again and says, "This is your final decision and set of paperwork. I would also like to disclose that your initial deposit covering the full one million credits is non-refundable. So, as a last formality, would you like to invest in the full investment suite?"`
```
This is the final decision, but they keep the money regardless of what I choose? Is this satire?

Author: Going more for a narrative device than satire, reflecting some of the unfairness of the Syndicate. The feel I'm going for is the discomfort of a sleazy salesman who strings the player along with his charm, paperwork, and fine print in the context of the Syndicate. When investing with the Syndicate, there's minimal consumer rights -- so there's no recourse for refunds or moral qualms after you've signed that first contract. 

By the time you're signing the last paperwork on Hephaestus you've already committed to the investment. Howard's been slickly stringing you through all the documents, and gives you a last minute legal disclaimer that forces you to acknowledge the ethical problems of your investment -- after you've already paid. You _technically_ have the option to back out, but like Howard says, it's really just a formality, and shows how little real choice most people have when dealing with the Syndicate (and in the next missions that theme evolves: as you get richer you get more choices, but they're still dwarfed by the Syndicate's overwhelming size and power).

So the ending bit is a narrative device showing how in the Syndicate, the decisions you make can be trapped in the fine print to pull you towards ethically bad actions, and how you don't have a good way to get out of them. It's (hopefully) an uncomfortable reminder of how little recourse First Last has once Howard has their money, and the 'final decision' is really just a moral dilemma after the fact.

Reviewer 6: I'm not sure not telling me something until I've already committed is "fine print". That's just not telling me.
It's not "last minute". As you've said, I've already committed, I've already paid. Last minute would be if he tole me as I was writing the cheque (metaphorically). The thing is already done.
And, given that the arrangement here is that I am buying a bond, presenting this as a "final decision" when I've already fulfilled my part of the arrangement (give them money) and giving me the option to "back out", which is basically just donating whatever income I would have received back to the Syndicate, doesn't feel "sleezy" or "unfair" as much as it does actual theft.

I get that the Syndicate is a capitalist organisation who doesn't value consumer rights, but I think there is a difference between that and what is presented here. Not telling me something that he is apparently required to mention until after I've done everything he needs of me is just straight up lying.

This kind of just feels like "Syndicate do some bad things, so they'd probably do this bad thing."

Frankly, the manner in which this is presented feels manufactured. If this is something he is required to disclose, it should be before I commit. If he is not required to disclose it, then why is he doing so at all? I have already committed, the second contract just seems like an excuse for him to tell me this additional information for the purpose of creating a moral dillema, even though the contract doesn't really do anything (since I already paid). Did the original documents just not make any reference to what I would receive in exchange for my money? Did I just give them money with no contract on what I would get in exchange?

Author: I appreciate the write-up and apologize on the delay in responding.

From what I understand, your main concerns are 1) feeling blindsided by the additional documents to sign after committing, and 2) that the terms (like non-refundable payments and requiring additional documents) feel more manufactured than realistic. I’ve thought a bit about this and made some changes that I hope address both points:

**1. Improving Player Choices**
I’ve revised the pre-signing section to allow players more agency. First Last can now choose whether to be potentially blindsided or to dig deeper into the terms. They can hire a lawyer (who will explicitly call out the non-refundable payment and possible future disclosures), or they can read the first page of the contract themselves, which also mentions these in more obtuse language. This puts the onus on the player to decide how much diligence they want to do before committing, rather than feeling ambushed later. So now it is actually is last minute fine print for the player rather than being abstracted away.

Regarding the "final decision," and "last formality" phrasing, these are intentionally framed as Howard’s sleazy sales language to fit his character. However, if this language still feels off in the broader context, I’m happy to change it--please let me know if that would help!

**2. Realism of Terms**
These kinds of terms (non-refundable payments, additional requirements even after payment, etc.) are actually somewhat common in real-world contracts. It’s also important to note that this transaction is a private credit transaction, which means that the player is acting as an accredited investor rather than a regular consumer.

Accredited investors are generally considered to be financially sophisticated and better equipped to assess risks, which means they are subject to even fewer regulatory protections compared to typical consumers. While First Last may not actually be particularly sophisticated in this scenario, the Syndicate would certainly treat them as such; and the player now has the opportunity for that sophistication by either careful reading the contract or hiring a lawyer. For context, here are examples that I've found of both consumer-grade and commercial transactions where similarly exploitative terms already exist across a variety of regulatory environments:

- **Mandatory HOA fees in the US**: Homebuyers can be obligated to pay HOA fees and comply with rules, even if the HOA isn’t mentioned in the original sales contract. Failure to comply can result in foreclosure so the buyer loses the house.
https://hoa-attorneys.com/articles/miscellaneous-articles/why-some-purchasers-dont-know-they-bought-into-a-mandatory-association/

- **Governor’s Consent in Nigeria**: Property buyers must obtain this certificate post-purchase (which can take months and includes multiple addtional fees), or their purchase is deemed invalid despite full payment: https://omonilelawyer.com/governors-consent-finally-explained-in-a-simple-manner-and-why-you-must-register-a-governors-consent/

- **FIDIC’s Silver Book**: Widely used internationally in private infrastructure contracts, this allows purchasers to unilaterally change contract requirements after contractors are locked into fixed pricing. https://www.lexology.com/library/detail.aspx?g=56be359b-aa01-4e80-bd44-045caba1f179

- **Oil & Gas Joint Operating Agreements**: Following the oil crash in the ’80s, some agreements introduced forfeiture clauses where a defaulting party could lose their entire ownership stake in a project--with the stated goal being to "'punish' a defaulting party beyond the limits of reason.".
https://corporate.findlaw.com/litigation-disputes/the-contract-you-thought-you-made-forfeitures-and-penalties.html/

These examples show that unfair terms like these are not only plausible but often occur, especially where entities like Megaparsec hold significant leverage. While these practices are less common for everyday consumers, they still occur for them and are pretty unremarkable in private, higher-stakes transactions like the one offered by Howard.

To make this clearer in-game, you can actually read the main section of the contract text itself, and/or a hired lawyer will explicitly tell you that "you may be required to sign additional documents or disclosures in the future, even if they aren't specifically listed in the contract now." While the second disclosure signing could have been framed as different regulatory paperwork or an extra fee, I intentionally chose a strip mining disclosure for that moral dilemma to reinforce the broader theme of the ease of compromising one’s ethics for profit in the Syndicate. So I think it's fine for the 2nd disclosure to be manufactured as something impactful, but I'm hoping now that the 2nd disclosure existing at all doesn't feel manufactured now since it's now called out in the contract beforehand and shown to happen in real life.

I hope these changes address your concerns to get this mission over the finish line. Still working through the other minor comments, but if there’s anything else you feel could be improved, I’m happy to adjust further!

Author: Alternatively, I could delete the new stuff and add a 50% refund instead if that's more likely to get this back on track?

Reviewer: I think the way it is works fine. He does say that it's a formality; formalities rarely change anything.
The suggestion probably needs to be applied.

Reviewer 6: Sorry it's taken me so long.
I really like your approach of letting the reader investigate further, or skip the due diligence.
I think it assuages my concerns very well.

Author: No worries, and thanks! I think this thread drove this mission to become a bit richer, so I appreciate it and I'm glad that it was able to ease the concerns you had. Based on that I'm going to resolve this comment, though of course feel free to reopen if anything else comes up.

mission "Syndicate Business 1"
	name "Rescue kidnapped man in <waypoints>"
	description "You have received a mysterious distress call from an alleged abductee in the <waypoints> system. Head there to see if you can find the signal's source."
	minor
	to offer
		random < 40
		credits > 5000000
		"combat rating" > 50
	source
		government "Syndicate"

> 		attributes "core"

Reviewer: Might be worth not letting this offer on the origin planet.
```suggestion
		attributes "core"
		not planet "Sunracer"
```

	waypoint "Moktar"
	destination "Sunracer"
	on offer
		conversation
			`As you are walking through the spaceport, you are startled by a sudden loud beeping from a nearby computer terminal. The computer is unattended and the screen is blinking on and off.`
			choice
				`	(Check it out.)`
				`	(Ignore it.)`
					decline
			`	When you approach, you are greeted by plain text on the terminal's screen:`
			`		"SOS: Megaparsec employee kidnapped by pirates, can't respond. <waypoints> standard coordinates: RAD AU 30.12 LAT 0.2 LON 303.9. Life in danger, need urgent rescue. Cannot otherwise communicate, all signals monitored. Please help!"`

> 			`	You note that the message appears to be coming from an emergency transmitter commonly found on many small shuttles and escape pods. There is no shortage of pirates in <waypoints>, which is only a system away from Megaparsec's headquarters on <planet>.`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
			`	You note that the message appears to be coming from an emergency transmitter commonly found on many small shuttles and escape pods. There is no shortage of pirates in <waypoints>, which is only a system away from Megaparsec's headquarters on <planet>. Presumably, you'll be expected to head there after rescuing the Megaparsec employee.`
```

			choice
				`	(Head to <waypoints>.)`
					accept
				`	(Ignore it and walk away.)`
					decline
	on accept
		event "start of independent violence"
	on enter "Moktar"
		"reputation: Independent (Killable)" = -1000
		conversation
			`When you enter <waypoints>, your sensors detect a pirate Vanguard and a derelict Emergency Shuttle aimlessly drifting near the coordinates in the original message. Almost immediately, you receive a message from the pirate ship.`
			`	"You were unwise to get involved in our business. Hand over that pompous salesman Howard, and I'll let you live."`
			choice
				`	"Uhhh... hand over who?"`
				`	"I don't negotiate with pirates!"`
					goto negotiate
				`	"You can take him, but I don't know where he is."`
			`	"Bah, you spineless buffoon! Your lies won't save you or that useless salesman. I'll find him in your ship's wreckage!"`
				goto power
			label negotiate
			`	"Aye, then I won't negotiate with you! Prepare to meet your end!"`
			label power

> 			`	The Vanguard's engines roar to life and you see a baker's half dozen fixed guns take aim at your ship, ready to strike.`

Author: How about making it a bit more vague, since "you" could be referring to your ship or your group of ships?
```suggestion
			`	The Vanguard's engines roar to life and you see a baker's half dozen fixed guns take aim at you, ready to strike.`
```

	npc
		government "Independent (Killable)"
		personality heroic staying vindictive
			confusion 20
		system "Moktar"
		ship "Vanguard" "Golden Jewel"
		on kill
			set "syndicate business: golden jewel dead"
			dialog "The crew of the Golden Jewel are no more. You think you can make out the pirate captain drifting in space nearby."
	npc save assist
		government "Independent"

> 		personality derelict quiet escort

Reviewer: This ship shows up as an escort even before you know it will be there/what you'll need to do with this. Could we get away with removing it altogether?

Author: I think that the emergency message sending coordinates and the note that "the message appears to be coming from an emergency transmitter commonly found on many small shuttles and escape pods" implies that there's a small shuttle awaiting rescue and that you know the coordinates of where it is, which might be sufficient alone for knowing there's a shuttle to rescue.

Though separate from that, I feel this is _probably_ an acceptable break from realism for the sake of gameplay. When I played through without the **escort** personality, I couldn't see where the ship was or its health even after rescuing, and when entering the system it's not immediately clear that the primary goal is to save the ship (especially if someone skims the dialog quickly). I could definitely see players being unsure of what to do and becoming frustrated without something mechanically indicating the ship to rescue and its status.

			choice
				`	"Sure, here's the one million credits."`
					goto signed
				`	"I want to look through these documents before signing."`
				`	"Can I get a lawyer to review this?"`
					goto lawyer
				`	"I need more time to think about this."`
					goto unsure
				`	"No, I'd prefer not to become an investor."`
					decline
			label lookingthrough
			`	Howard chuckles as if your request were absurd.`
			`	"Sure, sure, feel free to peruse the first page. But, uh, let me remind you -- this credit agreement is 101 pages long, over 87,000 words. Unless you've got degrees in Syndicate & Megaparsec regulatory investment law and all day to read, I suggest you focus on the highlighted parts. Time is money, my friend, and this deal won't wait forever!"`
			`	Howard slides the cover and first page toward you and taps it impatiently with his pen.`
			choice
				`	(Take a look at what Howard slid over.)`

> 				`	"All right, I'll sign."`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
				`	"Alright, I'll sign."`
```

			choice
				`	(Head to <waypoints>.)`
					accept
				`	(Ignore it and walk away.)`
					decline
	on accept
		event "start of independent violence"
	on enter "Moktar"
		"reputation: Independent (Killable)" = -1000
		conversation
			`When you enter <waypoints>, your sensors detect a pirate Vanguard and a derelict Emergency Shuttle aimlessly drifting near the coordinates in the original message. Almost immediately, you receive a message from the pirate ship.`
			`	"You were unwise to get involved in our business. Hand over that pompous salesman Howard, and I'll let you live."`
			choice
				`	"Uhhh... hand over who?"`
				`	"I don't negotiate with pirates!"`
					goto negotiate
				`	"You can take him, but I don't know where he is."`
			`	"Bah, you spineless buffoon! Your lies won't save you or that useless salesman. I'll find him in your ship's wreckage!"`
				goto power
			label negotiate
			`	"Aye, then I won't negotiate with you! Prepare to meet your end!"`
			label power

> 			`	The Vanguard's engines roar to life and you see over half a dozen fixed guns take aim at your ship, ready to strike.`

Author: I knew baker's dozen was 13, but I had no idea that a "baker's half-dozen" was 7. I think that's a fun idea for flavoring the Vanguard's 7 guns pointing at you. I'll add it in.

> 			`	The Vanguard's engines roar to life and you see over half a dozen fixed guns take aim at your ship, ready to strike.`

Author: Just applied so resolving this one.

	npc
		government "Independent (Killable)"
		personality heroic staying vindictive
			confusion 20
		system "Moktar"
		ship "Vanguard" "Golden Jewel"
		on kill
			set "syndicate business: golden jewel dead"
			dialog "The crew of the Golden Jewel are no more. You think you can make out the pirate captain drifting in space nearby."
	npc save assist
		government "Independent"
		personality derelict quiet escort
		system "Moktar"
		ship "Emergency Shuttle" "Escape Pod 001"
		on kill
			dialog "You watch as the Emergency Shuttle you're supposed to save explodes into a cloud of debris, all hope snuffed out in an instant."
		conversation
			`You board the Emergency Shuttle to see its desperate and nearly incoherent occupant. "Oh thank the stars, thank you! Captain, you've got to save me - please! I'm Howard. I promise you a reward if you can fix up this tin can so I can get to my office on <planet>! I'm with Megaparsec, I can make it worth your while!"`
			choice
				`	"Sounds good."`
					decline
				`	"What's the deal with you and that pirate?"`

> 			`	Howard takes a breath and seems to calm himself. "That pirate was a potential investor in the firm I work for. We had a disagreement over the terms and it obviously got quite out of hand. I'll need to find a new business partner now..." He trails off. Time to get back to <planet>.`

Author: What about instead "get Howard back to"?

> 			`	Howard takes a breath and seems to calm himself. "That pirate was a potential investor in the firm I work for. We had a disagreement over the terms and it obviously got quite out of hand. I'll need to find a new business partner now..." He trails off. Time to get back to <planet>.`

Author: Just applied so resolving this one as well.

			choice
				`	"Sure, I'll invest. What do I need to do?"`
				`	"Nope, I'll stick with the 90k."`
					goto payup
			label invest
			`	"Excellent. I'll need to get approval for the bond sale and set up the paperwork. Feel free to come by my kiosk in the spaceport here later today if you're ready to invest, or another time if you need more time. Remember, you'll need to have at least one million credits for the bond purchase, and I'll need you to transport me to Hephaestus to take care of a few other administrative tasks."`
				decline
			label payup
			`	"Erhm, yes, of course. Here you are, my savings of ninety-one thousand, nine hundred and fifty one credits. I remain in your debt, and if you still want to invest in us, I will be here."`
			action
				payment 91951
				set "syndicate business: mean to Howard"

event "start of independent violence"
	government "Independent (Killable)"
		"attitude toward"

> 			"Independent" -.2
> 	government "Independent"
> 		"attitude toward"
> 			"Independent (Killable)" -.2

Reviewer: Most governments use `-0.01` because if a number is `-0.05` or greater, killing one will gain you reputation with the other.
If you're not supposed to gain reputation by killing the other `Independent` government, then it should be `-0.01`.
```suggestion
			"Independent" -.01
	government "Independent"
		"attitude toward"
			"Independent (Killable)" -.01
```

			"shield damage" 90
			"hull damage" 45
			"hit force" 135
	outfits
		"KP-6 Photovoltaic Panel" 2
		"LP036a Battery Pack"
		"Outfits Expansion"
		
		"X1050 Ion Engines"

		"Hyperdrive"
		
	engine 0 26
		zoom 1.4
	leak "leak" 40 50
	explode "tiny explosion" 5
	explode "small explosion" 1
	description "This Emergency Shuttle is custom-built, designed to be attached to a larger ship and to serve as a lifeboat if the need arises. It is intentionally designed to maximize the number of people it can carry to safety, but has very little space for outfits."

mission "Syndicate Business 2"
	name "Purchase bond on <planet>"
	description "Bring Howard to <destination> in order to finish the paperwork you'll need to finalize your bond agreement with Megaparsec Incorporated."
	passengers 1
	source "Sunracer"
	destination "Hephaestus"
	blocked "Howard has offered you an investment opportunity, but mentioned that it'll cost you a million credits up front, and you'll need space on your ship to transport him elsewhere. Better come back when you have those, plus a few more credits."
	to offer
		has "Syndicate Business 1: done"
	to accept
		credits > 1100300
	on offer
		conversation

> 			`You visit the kiosk location Howard gave you at the spaceport, where he immediately spots and heads toward you. Grateful for saving his life, he thanks you profusely and excitedly tells you what an exclusive offer you've received to be able to purchase a bond of Megaparsec Incorporated.`

Reviewer 3: I think this flows a bit better.
```suggestion
			`You visit the kiosk location Howard gave you at the spaceport, where he immediately spots and heads toward you. Grateful for saving his life, he thanks you profusely and excitedly tells you what an exclusive offer you've received to be able to purchase a Megaparsec bond.`
```

				accept
	on accept
		payment -1000000
	on complete
		conversation
			`You land on <destination> and follow Howard's instructions to the biometric scan center. You hand in the first set of paperwork you filled out, and after scanning your fingerprint, retinas, and getting a blood sample, Howard comes over and says, "Excellent, only one last set of paperwork left to sign." He places one more set of documents on the table and taps the stack of papers.`
			`	"New regulations dictate that we inform you that the proceeds of this bond may be used in high risk activities such as strip mining, clearing endangered habitats, or doing business on worlds with alleged human rights violations. All boilerplate language, of course, but you have to disclose every possibility these days." He shrugs.`

> 			`	He then taps the documents the documents again and says, "This is your final decision and set of paperwork. I would also like to disclose that your initial deposit covering the full one million credits is non-refundable. So, as a last formality, would you like to invest in the full investment suite?"`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
			`	He then taps the documents again and says, "This is your final decision and the last set of paperwork. I would also like to disclose that your initial deposit covering the full one million credits is non-refundable. So, as a last formality, would you like to invest in the full investment suite?"`
```

mission "Syndicate Business 1"
	name "Rescue kidnapped man in <waypoints>"
	description "You have received a mysterious distress call from an alleged abductee in the <waypoints> system. Head there to see if you can find the signal's source."
	minor
	to offer
		random < 40
		credits > 5000000
		"combat rating" > 50
	source
		government "Syndicate"
		attributes "core"
	waypoint "Moktar"
	destination "Sunracer"
	on offer
		conversation
			`As you are walking through the spaceport, you are startled by a sudden loud beeping from a nearby computer terminal. The computer is unattended and the screen is blinking on and off.`
			choice
				`	(Check it out.)`
				`	(Ignore it.)`
					decline
			`	When you approach, you are greeted by plain text on the terminal's screen:`

> 			`	"SOS: Kidnapped by pirates, can't respond. <waypoints> standard coordinates: RAD AU 30.12 LAT 0.2 LON 303.9. Life in danger, need urgent rescue. Cannot communicate, all signals monitored. Please help!"`

Reviewer: Perhaps an extra indent to show the difference?
```suggestion
			`		"SOS: Kidnapped by pirates, can't respond. <waypoints> standard coordinates: RAD AU 30.12 LAT 0.2 LON 303.9. Life in danger, need urgent rescue. Cannot communicate, all signals monitored. Please help!"`
```

			`	You note that the message appears to be coming from an emergency transmitter commonly found on many small shuttles and escape pods. There is no shortage of pirates in <waypoints>.`
			choice

> 				`	(To <waypoints>!)`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
				`	(Head to <waypoints>.)`
					accept
```
Maybe you could make this something the player is saying and keep the original text, but I think it's better this way.
(see below for the `accept` reasoning)

				`	(Ignore it and walk away.)`
					decline

> 			`	You return to your ship and prepare to leave.`
> 				accept

Reviewer: What if the player than goes to the trading center?
I think it's better to just remove this altogether.
What if the player than goes to the trading center?
I think it's better to just remove this altogether.
```suggestion
```

	on accept
		event "start of independent violence"
	on enter "Moktar"
		"reputation: Independent (Killable)" = -1000
		conversation

> 			`When you enter <waypoints>, your sensors detect a pirate Vanguard and a derelict Emergency Shuttle aimlessly drifting near the coordinates in the original message. Almost immediately, you receive a message from the pirate ship..`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
			`When you enter <waypoints>, your sensors detect a pirate Vanguard and a derelict Emergency Shuttle aimlessly drifting near the coordinates in the original message. Almost immediately, you receive a message from the pirate ship.`
```

			`	"You were unwise to get involved in our business. Hand over that pompous salesman Howard, and I'll let you live."`
			choice
				`	"Uhhh... hand over who?"`
				`	"I don't negotiate with pirates!"`
					goto negotiate
				`	"You can take him, but I don't know where he is."`
			`	"Bah, you spineless buffoon! Your lies won't save you or that useless salesman. I'll find him in your ship's wreckage!"`
				goto power
			label negotiate
			`	"Aye, then I won't negotiate with you! Prepare to meet your end!"`
			label power

> 			`	The Vanguard's engines roar to life as you see over half a dozen fixed guns take aim at your ship, ready to strike.`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
			`	The Vanguard's engines roar to life and you see over half a dozen fixed guns take aim at your ship, ready to strike.`
```

	npc
		government "Independent (Killable)"
		personality heroic staying vindictive
			confusion 20
		system "Moktar"
		ship "Vanguard" "Golden Jewel"
		on kill
			set "syndicate business: golden jewel dead"
			dialog "The crew of the Golden Jewel are no more. You think you can make out the pirate captain drifting in space nearby."
	npc save assist
		government "Independent"

> 		personality derelict target quiet escort

Reviewer: There's a slight possibility that adding `target` will make people think they're supposed to destroy the escape pod. Perhaps it's better to remove it.
```suggestion
		personality derelict quiet escort
```

		system "Moktar"
		ship "Emergency Shuttle" "Escape Pod 001"
		on kill

> 			dialog "You watch as the Emergency Shuttle you're racing to save explodes into a cloud of debris, all hope snuffed out in an instant."

Reviewer: This dialog doesn't make sense if you're the one who kills it.

Author: It would be silly to do so, but indeed possible. What about changing it to say that you're _supposed_ to save it rather than that you are?
```suggestion
			dialog "You watch as the Emergency Shuttle you're supposed to save explodes into a cloud of debris, all hope snuffed out in an instant."
```

> 		conversation

Reviewer: ```suggestion
		conversation
			action
				event "end of independent violence"
```
Might be better to make this happen immediately rather than once the player lands.

			`You board the Emergency Shuttle to see its desperate and nearly incoherent occupant: "Oh thank the stars, thank you! Captain, you've got to save me - please! I'm Howard. I promise you a reward if you can fix up this tin can so I can get to <destination>! I'm with Megaparsec, I can make it worth your while!"`
			choice
				`	"Sounds good."`

> 					decline

Reviewer: To confirm, this doesn't fail the mission?

Author: I will double check this, but I don't think so because it's after you've already accepted the mission.

Author: My memory was correct! This works as expected and does not fail the mission.

				`	"What's the deal with you and that pirate?"`
			`	Howard takes a breath and seems to calm himself. "That pirate was a potential investor in the firm I work for. We had a disagreement over the terms and it obviously got quite out of hand. I'll need to find a new business partner now..." He trails off. Time to get back to <planet>.`
	on complete
		"reputation: Independent (Killable)" = 10

> 		event "end of independent violence"

Reviewer: See two comments above.
```suggestion
```

Author: Ditto on above -- I think this would make the pirate neutral to Howard while the mission is still ongoing, which is undesired.

		log `Rescued a Syndicate salesman kidnapped by pirates, who then offered an investment opportunity.`
		log "People" "Howard Vendeur" `A polished yet insecure Megaparsec businessman, Howard is a salesman known for brokering investment deals. While polite, Howard seems rarely concerned with ethics or personal connections, instead focusing on transactions that further his own interests.`
		conversation
			`When you land on <planet>, Howard is waiting for you at the spaceport, looking much more collected than he was on the Emergency Shuttle. "Thank you, truly. I'm Howard Vendeur, Investor Relations Associate with Megaparsec Incorporated. Anyway, I've managed to scrounge up my savings. It's not much to someone like you, I'm afraid. Just over ninety thousand credits.`

> 			`	"However, I see you're clearly a captain of means. I'd have to pull a few strings, but I could get you into a private placement of a Megaparsec Inc. perpetual bond. To purchase a perpetual bond of Megaparsec Inc. I will need one million credits and for you to sign a few documents. This round is quite generous, with promised returns of 20% per annum expected, of course, to continue into perpetuity, paid out to you as a daily dividend of 500 credits."`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
			`	"However, I see you're clearly a captain of means. I'd have to pull a few strings, but I could get you into a private placement of a Megaparsec Inc. perpetual bond. To purchase a perpetual bond of Megaparsec Inc. I will need one million credits and for you to sign a few documents. This round is quite generous, with promised returns of 20% per annum, expected, of course, to continue into perpetuity, paid out to you as a daily dividend of 500 credits."`
```
It's grammatically correct before, but could be confusing to readers: "promised...expected"?

Author: Good point, how about this?

```suggestion
			`	"However, I see you're clearly a captain of means. I'd have to pull a few strings, but I could get you into a private placement of a Megaparsec Inc. perpetual bond. To purchase a perpetual bond of Megaparsec Inc. I will need one million credits and for you to sign a few documents. This round is quite generous, with promised returns of 20% per annum, to continue, of course, into perpetuity, paid out to you as a daily dividend of 500 credits."`
```

			choice
				`	"Sure, I'll invest. What do I need to do?"`
					goto invest

> 				`	"Megaparsec? I thought you were part of the Syndicate."`
> 					goto mega

Reviewer: ```suggestion
				`	"Megaparsec? I thought that was part of the Syndicate."`
```
The `goto` is unnecessary.

				`	"Private placement? Does that mean I own part of the Syndicate?"`
					goto placement
				`	"No thanks. I'll take the money, please."`
					goto payup

> 			label mega

Reviewer: This label is also unnecessary, although you could leave it and the `goto` in for human readability.

			action
				payment 91951
				set "syndicate business: mean to Howard"

event "start of independent violence"
	government "Independent (Killable)"
		"attitude toward"
			"Independent" -.2
	government "Independent"
		"attitude toward"
			"Independent (Killable)" -.2

event "end of independent violence"
	government "Independent (Killable)"
		"attitude toward"
			"Independent" 0
	government "Independent"
		"attitude toward"
			"Independent (Killable)" 0

# Feel free to change this escape pod to a different ship once escape pod mechanics are implemented.
ship "Emergency Shuttle"
	sprite "ship/escape pod"
	attributes
		category "Utility"
		"cost" 45000
		"shields" 300
		"hull" 600
		"required crew" 1
		"bunks" 10
		"mass" 65
		"drag" 1.7
		"heat dissipation" .7
		"fuel capacity" 100
		"cargo space" 20
		"outfit space" 39
		"weapon capacity" 0
		"engine capacity" 20
		weapon
			"blast radius" 9
			"shield damage" 90
			"hull damage" 45
			"hit force" 135
	outfits
		"KP-6 Photovoltaic Panel" 2
		"LP036a Battery Pack"
		"Outfits Expansion"
		

> 		"X1050 Ion Engines"

Reviewer: While unlikely, it's technically possible that the player gets this mission before these engines are available. Is that something we want to worry about?

Author: Hmmm, this engine becomes publicly available at Syndicate outfitters starting a few months after the war begins, so at absolute worst this engine appears here a little over a year before it's sold at advanced and basic outfitters. 

Personally, I don't think it's too far a stretch for a Syndicate employee to have a minor engine before it's publicly available (maybe it's a prototype or they only conducted private sales of it before the war), but if it's a concern I can just add `has "event: southern carriers 1"` as a requirement for the first mission.

	to offer
		has "Syndicate Business 1: done"
	to accept
		credits > 1100300
	on offer
		conversation
			`You visit the kiosk location Howard gave you at the spaceport, where he immediately spots and heads toward you. Grateful for saving his life, he thanks you profusely and excitedly tells you what an exclusive offer you've received to be able to purchase a bond of Megaparsec Incorporated.`
			`	"To reiterate, in order to purchase a perpetual Megaparsec Incorporated bond you will need to provide us with an up-front payment of one million credits, and sign some legal documents. Our promised returns are 20% per annum, which we expect to continue into perpetuity, paid out to you as a daily dividend of 500 credits. Do you accept these terms?"`
			choice
				`	"Sure, here's the one million credits."`
					goto signed
				`	"I want to look through these documents before signing."`
				`	"Can I get a lawyer to review this?"`
					goto lawyer
				`	"I need more time to think about this."`
					goto unsure

> 				`	"No, I won't become an investor."`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
				`	"No, I'd prefer not to become an investor."`
```
Something about the original sentence seems... wrong. I think this is better.

			`	The Investor acknowledges that they have been provided opportunity to review this Agreement in part or in full and may request a referral to legal counsel certified in Syndicate and Megaparsec regulatory investment law if desired at a standard rate. The Investor's signature below confirms their full and unconditional acceptance of this Agreement, including all foregoing terms and conditions, supplementary materials incorporated herein, and any future amendments or expansions thereto, which shall become immediately binding upon issuance by the Issuer.`
			choice
				`	"I'm ready to sign!"`
					goto signed
				`	"I think I need a lawyer."`
					goto lawyer

> 				`	"But I don't have a 'complete understanding and acceptance of the foregoing terms and conditions,' I'm backing out."`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
				`	"But I don't have a 'complete understanding and acceptance of the foregoing terms and conditions,' so I'm backing out."`
					decline
```

			label unsure
			`	Howard lets out a laugh, the sound a bit forced, his grin unwavering as a bead of sweat appears on his face. "Ah, I see, you're one of those detail-oriented types. Look, I appreciate thoroughness as much as the next businessperson, but let's be real here -- these documents are standard boilerplate. You don't need a complete understanding of every last word to recognize a golden opportunity when it's staring you in the face."`
			`	He gestures back to the stack of papers with a casual wave of his hand. "But if you insist on taking more time to think or read through it all, let me remind you -- this offer isn't going to wait forever. Opportunities like this are rare, and hesitation could mean missing out entirely. So, what's it going to be? Are you ready to grasp the deal of a lifetime, or are you going to let this one slip through your fingers?"`
			`	Howard taps his pen on the stack of documents, clearly impatient but maintaining a polished demeanor.`
			choice
				`	"Okay, okay, I'll sign."`
					goto signed
				`	"I want a lawyer."`

> 					goto lawyer

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

			`	"As it happens, I've taken the liberty of compiling a list for your convenience. These are the best in the business -- every single one fully certified and capable of handling a document of this caliber. Naturally, I'd recommend the first name on the list," he says, tapping the top entry, which is highlighted in green.`
			`	You glance down at the datapad. Each lawyer's availability is color-coded: green for immediate availability, yellow for waitlists stretching a few days, orange for weeks, and red for those not currently accepting new clients. The first lawyer, Howard's recommendation, is the only one highlighted in green.`
			`	"Efficient, thorough, and well-versed in Megaparsec investment structures," Howard continues, his tone smooth. "And, of course, ready to assist immediately. They can review the documents for you today for the modest sum of 100,295 credits. If peace of mind is what you're after, this is your best option. Alternatively, you can always trust in the integrity of this opportunity and move forward now. The choice is yours."`
			choice
				`	"I'll just sign the investment."`
					goto signed
				`	"I guess I'll go with the only available lawyer."`

> 					goto onlylawyer

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

				`	(Ignore it.)`
					decline
			`	When you approach, you are greeted by plain text on the terminal's screen:`
			`		"SOS: Megaparsec employee kidnapped by pirates, can't respond. <waypoints> standard coordinates: RAD AU 30.12 LAT 0.2 LON 303.9. Life in danger, need urgent rescue. Cannot communicate, all signals monitored. Please help!"`

> 			`	You note that the message appears to be coming from an emergency transmitter commonly found on many small shuttles and escape pods. There is no shortage of pirates in <waypoints>, which is only system away from Megaparsec's headquarters on <planet>.`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
			`	You note that the message appears to be coming from an emergency transmitter commonly found on many small shuttles and escape pods. There is no shortage of pirates in <waypoints>, which is only a system away from Megaparsec's headquarters on <planet>.`
```

		credits > 1000000
	on offer
		conversation

> 			`You visit the office address Howard gave you at the spaceport where Howard immediately sees you and once again thanks you profusely for saving his life and excitedly tells you what an exclusive offer you've received to be able to purchase a bond of Maralex Controls.`

Author: This is fair. How about:

You visit the office address Howard gave you at the spaceport, where he immediately spots you. Grateful for saving his life, he thanks you profusely and excitedly tells you what an exclusive offer you've received to be able to purchase a bond of Maralex Controls.
